---
title: Intro
description: Understand how login methods define the way providers authenticate users in Shird.
navigation:
    icon: i-twemoji-hammer-and-wrench
seo:
    description: Understand how login methods define the way providers authenticate users in Shird.
---

## Introduction

A **login method** defines **how** a provider initiates and manages the authentication flow —
for example, through a **browser redirect**, an **embedded WebView**, or any other custom approach.

Each provider (such as Microsoft or Apple) relies on a login method to open the authentication page, monitor the callback, and return authentication data such as cookies or tokens.

## Definition

You can define your own login method by implementing the following function:

```ts
Future<Map<String, String>?> launchLogin({
  required String loginUrl,
  required String callbackUrl,
  required String title,
  GlobalKey<NavigatorState>? navigatorKey,
})
```

This function is responsible for:

* Opening the authentication interface (WebView, external browser, etc.)
* Waiting for the callback URL to be reached
* Extracting authentication cookies or tokens
* Returning them as a `Map<String, String>`


## Predefined Methods

You can use predefined login methods by adding the corresponding **addon** to your project.
See the **dedicated sections** for each addon implementation (e.g., WebView, Browser, etc.) to learn how to integrate them properly.

There is **no default login method** for now.
Shird aims to remain **dependency-free**, so you must explicitly use or implement a login method that fits your needs.



::warning
**Under Construction** This section is currently under construction.
The feature or documentation content will be added in a future update.

Stay tuned — we’re actively working on it to provide clear and complete guidance soon.

::
